README.md, before:

[![logo-light-long-2](https://github.com/policer-io/.github/assets/16650977/c39ad4a3-7a5c-40b6-9a69-5be3a3c50255)](https://policer.io)

# Developer Friendly Access Control with Policy as JSON

An intuitive open source authorization and access control SDK for software applications and microservices.

[![policer.io](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=🔗&message=policer.io&color=DE2A42)](https://policer.io)
[![embrio.tech](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=🚀+by&message=EMBRIO.tech&color=24ae5f)](https://embrio.tech)

## :gem: Key Benefits

- **Simplified Security:** Remove access control headaches from your application code.
- **Policy as Data:** Define permissions with intuitive and maintainable JSON syntax.
- **Clean Code:** Evaluate permissions and grant access with just one line of code.
- **Fine-Grained Permissions:** Modify database query filters and hide, show, or set data properties.
- **Popular models:** Manage user access with powerful and widely accepted RBAC and ABAC models.

[Learn more](https://policer.io/#features) about the benefits and features of policer.io!

<img width="903" alt="permission-example-lg" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/31e63e67-1a83-463a-b9c5-a0b9b979c3c5">

## :books: Table of Contents

- [:spider_web: Architecture](#spider_web-architecture)
- [:construction_worker: Development](#construction_worker-development)
- [:bulb: Concepts](#bulb-concepts)
- [:speech_balloon: Contact](#speech_balloon-contact)
- [:lock_with_ink_pen: License](#lock_with_ink_pen-license)

## :spider_web: Architecture

![app-architecture](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/eeaf7b92-aea1-42fb-891c-4731acfdd651)

_Figure: Architectural diagram of the application and environment architecture._

### Policy Decision Point (PDP)

Evaluate permissions in your app to grant or deny access with just one line of code in the programming language of your choice.

#### Client Library [`@policer-io/pdp-ts`](https://github.com/policer-io/pdp-ts)

The client library for typescript and javascript projects

[:book: Read the docs!](https://github.com/policer-io/pdp-ts)

### Policy Center

#### Submodule [`policer-io/api`](https://github.com/policer-io/api)

Manage, test and store your your permissions and access control logic with JSON, independent of your app's code, at a central place.

[![Pipeline](https://github.com/policer-io/api/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/policer-io/api/actions/workflows/test.yml)

<!-- ##### :seedling: Staging

Access staging at https://s.mypolicer.ch

- Start a [EC Support Flow](https://s.mypolicer.ch/consultation?flow=646e2412578910064ddf2661)
- Start a [Demo Flow](https://s.mypolicer.ch/consultation?flow=64525acc2292ae9a5b09800a) -->

### Policy Editor UI

Empower non-engineering team members to manage and implement permissions with a non-code user interface.

#### Submodule [`policer-io/client`](https://github.com/policer-io/client)

Coming soon... :construction:

## :construction_worker: Development

### Prerequisites

#### Docker

You need [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) :whale: for running the development environment.

#### Visual Studio Code

We strongly recommend you to use the [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) editor and IDE.

#### Clone Repository with submodules

You need to clone this repository **with the submodules** by using the `--recurse-submodules` option.

    git clone --recurse-submodules git@github.com:policer-io/policer-io.git

##### New Submodules

When new submodules are added or you forgot to use `--recurse-submodules` when cloning, you can execute

    git submodule update --init

to update and initialize the submodules. More on (git submodules)[https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules].

#### Environment Variables

You need to initalize the environment variables. :warning: NEVER commit any secrets to the repository. If you need to store secrets—such as cloud credentials—consider using [`git-secret`](https://github.com/sobolevn/git-secret#readme) to encrypt the `.env` files.

##### Global `.env`

    cp sample.env .env

##### Service specific `.env`

    cp <SERVICE-PATH>/sample.env <SERVICE-PATH>/.env

So, for example:

    cp policer-api/sample.env policer-api/.env

### Run

To run all services execute

    docker compose --profile policer up -d

#### DB Seeding

When the volumes do not exist, DBs are seeded with data by the initialization scripts in `init/...-db/`. To create a new DB seeding dumps check out [Create New DB Dumps](#create-new-db-dumps).

### Inspect

To inspect the logs of a service

    docker compose --profile policer logs -f policer-api

### Access

#### `api`

:link: http://localhost:5010

### (Re-)build

To rebuild the container images of a service after dependency changes run

    docker compose --profile policer build <service-id>

So, for example

    docker compose --profile policer build policer-client

#### Rebuild everything

To rebuild everything you can also run

    docker compose --profile policer up --build

### Stop and Cleanup

To clean everything up run

    docker compose --profile policer down -v

:warning: this also removes the data in the development databases. Don't use `-v` option if you want to keep data.

### Create New DB Dumps

Run at least the DB containers with `docker compose up`.

#### `policer-db`

To create a new db seed dump, run

    docker exec development-policer-db-1 sh -c 'mongodump -d emt-policer-d --authenticationDatabase admin -u mongodb -p mongodb --archive' > ./init/policer-db/db_init.dump

<!-- #### `identity-db`

To create a new db dump, run

    docker exec development-identity-db-1 sh -c 'pg_dump identity -U postgres' > ./init/identity-db/identity_init -->

## :bulb: Concepts

### Data Models

```mermaid
erDiagram
    Logic }o--o{ Permission : ""

    Logic {
        _id ObjectId PK ""
        name string ""
        rule LogicRule "JsonLogic Rule"
        type string "condition | filter | projection"
        tests unknown[] ""
        attributes unknown "? something to validate attributes/context data before applying logic"
    }

    Granting {
        _id ObjectId PK ""
        permission ObjectId FK "ref to Permission"
        recipient ObjectId FK "ref to User"
    }

    Permission {
        _id ObjectId PK ""
        name string "may contain wildcards"
        condition ObjectId FK "Logic"
        filter ObjectId FK "Logic"
        projection ObjectId FK "Logic"
    }

    Role {
        _id ObjectId PK ""
        name string PK ""
        description string ""
        permissions ObjectId[] FK "Permission[]"
        inherits ObjectId[] FK "Role[]"
    }
    Role }o--o{ Permission : ""
    Role }o--o{ Role : "inherits"

    Tenant {
        _id ObjectId PK ""
        name string "The name of an organization (tenant)"
    }
    Tenant ||--o{ Application : ""

    Application {
        _id ObjectId PK ""
        name string "The name of an application"
    }
    Application ||--o{ Logic : ""
    Application ||--o{ Role : ""
    Application ||--o{ Permission : ""
    Application ||--o{ Granting : ""
```

### JsonLogic

#### Return Object containing dynamic values from JsonLogic

When a `Logic` rule should return an object or array, we can use a custom JsonLogic operation `"json"`. For example

```json
{
  "name": "filterPremiumWithoutSubscription",
  "rule": {
    "if": [
      {
        "var": "userHasSubscription"
      },
      {
        "json": "{}"
      },
      {
        "json": "{ \"premium\": { \"$in\": [{{first}}, {{second}}, {{first}}] } }"
      }
    ]
  },
  "type": "filter",
  "application": "65f0674f39d8a1a5ef805ca7"
}
```

#### Parse `json` string with custom JsonLogic operation

We can use placeholder with double curly brackets `{{myVariable}}` and parse values into the json string before we parse it.

##### Possible implementation

```javascript
const json = '{ "premium": { "$in": [{{first}}, {{second}}, {{first}}] } }'

const matches = json.matchAll(/{{(\w+)}}/g)

const data = {
  first: 23,
  second: true,
}

const replaced = matches.reduce((result, match) => {
  console.log(match)
  const [matched, group] = match
  return result.replace(matched, data[group])
}, json)

console.log(replaced)

const obj = JSON.parse(replaced)

console.log(obj)
```

## :speech_balloon: Contact

Talk to us via [policer.io](https://policer.io/contact/)

## :lock_with_ink_pen: License

The code is licensed under the [AGPLv3](/LICENSE) License.

## :clipboard: To Do and Backlog

- [ ] Policy decisions should be logged to maintain an audit trail.
  - PDP should emit a socket event
  - Policer API should log these events in DB
- [ ] Validate the required attributes before policy decision.
- [x] Policy versioning, change log history
- [ ] Support offline usage, cache policy locally and load it on PDP start if no connection.

Commit message:

docs: add get started instructions

README.md, after:

[![logo-light-long-2](https://github.com/policer-io/.github/assets/16650977/c39ad4a3-7a5c-40b6-9a69-5be3a3c50255)](https://policer.io)

# Developer Friendly Access Control with Policy as JSON

An intuitive open source authorization and access control SDK for software applications and microservices.

[![policer.io](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=🔗&message=policer.io&color=DE2A42)](https://policer.io)
[![embrio.tech](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=🚀+by&message=EMBRIO.tech&color=24ae5f)](https://embrio.tech)

## :star: Stargaze us!

### Support the project by giving it a GitHub Star!

![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/policer-io/policer-io?label=GitHub%20%E2%AD%90%EF%B8%8F)

## :gem: Key Benefits

- **Simplified Security:** Remove access control headaches from your application code.
- **Policy as Data:** Define permissions with intuitive and maintainable JSON syntax.
- **Clean Code:** Evaluate permissions and grant access with just one line of code.
- **Fine-Grained Permissions:** Modify database query filters and hide, show, or set data properties.
- **Popular models:** Manage user access with powerful and widely accepted RBAC and ABAC models.

[Learn more](https://policer.io/#features) about the benefits and features of policer.io!

<img width="903" alt="permission-example-lg" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/31e63e67-1a83-463a-b9c5-a0b9b979c3c5">

## :electric_plug: Get Started

:soon: Instructions coming soon. [Talk to us](https://policer.io/contact/) if you don't want to wait.

Meanwhile check out the [client library instructions](https://github.com/policer-io/pdp-ts) to learn more on how it works.

## :books: Table of Contents

- [:spider_web: Architecture](#spider_web-architecture)
- [:construction_worker: Development](#construction_worker-development)
- [:bulb: Concepts](#bulb-concepts)
- [:speech_balloon: Contact](#speech_balloon-contact)
- [:lock_with_ink_pen: License](#lock_with_ink_pen-license)

## :spider_web: Architecture

![app-architecture](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/eeaf7b92-aea1-42fb-891c-4731acfdd651)

_Figure: Architectural diagram of the application and environment architecture._

### Policy Decision Point (PDP)

Evaluate permissions in your app to grant or deny access with just one line of code in the programming language of your choice.

#### Client Library [`@policer-io/pdp-ts`](https://github.com/policer-io/pdp-ts)

The client library for typescript and javascript projects

[:book: Read the docs!](https://github.com/policer-io/pdp-ts)

### Policy Center

#### Submodule [`policer-io/api`](https://github.com/policer-io/api)

Manage, test and store your your permissions and access control logic with JSON, independent of your app's code, at a central place.

[![Pipeline](https://github.com/policer-io/api/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/policer-io/api/actions/workflows/test.yml)

<!-- ##### :seedling: Staging

Access staging at https://s.mypolicer.ch

- Start a [EC Support Flow](https://s.mypolicer.ch/consultation?flow=646e2412578910064ddf2661)
- Start a [Demo Flow](https://s.mypolicer.ch/consultation?flow=64525acc2292ae9a5b09800a) -->

### Policy Editor UI

Empower non-engineering team members to manage and implement permissions with a non-code user interface.

#### Submodule [`policer-io/client`](https://github.com/policer-io/client)

Coming soon... :construction:

## :construction_worker: Development

### Prerequisites

#### Docker

You need [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) :whale: for running the development environment.

#### Visual Studio Code

We strongly recommend you to use the [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) editor and IDE.

#### Clone Repository with submodules

You need to clone this repository **with the submodules** by using the `--recurse-submodules` option.

    git clone --recurse-submodules git@github.com:policer-io/policer-io.git

##### New Submodules

When new submodules are added or you forgot to use `--recurse-submodules` when cloning, you can execute

    git submodule update --init

to update and initialize the submodules. More on (git submodules)[https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules].

#### Environment Variables

You need to initalize the environment variables. :warning: NEVER commit any secrets to the repository. If you need to store secrets—such as cloud credentials—consider using [`git-secret`](https://github.com/sobolevn/git-secret#readme) to encrypt the `.env` files.

##### Global `.env`

    cp sample.env .env

##### Service specific `.env`

    cp <SERVICE-PATH>/sample.env <SERVICE-PATH>/.env

So, for example:

    cp policer-api/sample.env policer-api/.env

### Run

To run all services execute

    docker compose --profile policer up -d

#### DB Seeding

When the volumes do not exist, DBs are seeded with data by the initialization scripts in `init/...-db/`. To create a new DB seeding dumps check out [Create New DB Dumps](#create-new-db-dumps).

### Inspect

To inspect the logs of a service

    docker compose --profile policer logs -f policer-api

### Access

#### `api`

:link: http://localhost:5010

### (Re-)build

To rebuild the container images of a service after dependency changes run

    docker compose --profile policer build <service-id>

So, for example

    docker compose --profile policer build policer-client

#### Rebuild everything

To rebuild everything you can also run

    docker compose --profile policer up --build

### Stop and Cleanup

To clean everything up run

    docker compose --profile policer down -v

:warning: this also removes the data in the development databases. Don't use `-v` option if you want to keep data.

### Create New DB Dumps

Run at least the DB containers with `docker compose up`.

#### `policer-db`

To create a new db seed dump, run

    docker exec development-policer-db-1 sh -c 'mongodump -d emt-policer-d --authenticationDatabase admin -u mongodb -p mongodb --archive' > ./init/policer-db/db_init.dump

<!-- #### `identity-db`

To create a new db dump, run

    docker exec development-identity-db-1 sh -c 'pg_dump identity -U postgres' > ./init/identity-db/identity_init -->

## :bulb: Concepts

### Data Models

```mermaid
erDiagram
    Logic }o--o{ Permission : ""

    Logic {
        _id ObjectId PK ""
        name string ""
        rule LogicRule "JsonLogic Rule"
        type string "condition | filter | projection"
        tests unknown[] ""
        attributes unknown "? something to validate attributes/context data before applying logic"
    }

    Granting {
        _id ObjectId PK ""
        permission ObjectId FK "ref to Permission"
        recipient ObjectId FK "ref to User"
    }

    Permission {
        _id ObjectId PK ""
        name string "may contain wildcards"
        condition ObjectId FK "Logic"
        filter ObjectId FK "Logic"
        projection ObjectId FK "Logic"
    }

    Role {
        _id ObjectId PK ""
        name string PK ""
        description string ""
        permissions ObjectId[] FK "Permission[]"
        inherits ObjectId[] FK "Role[]"
    }
    Role }o--o{ Permission : ""
    Role }o--o{ Role : "inherits"

    Tenant {
        _id ObjectId PK ""
        name string "The name of an organization (tenant)"
    }
    Tenant ||--o{ Application : ""

    Application {
        _id ObjectId PK ""
        name string "The name of an application"
    }
    Application ||--o{ Logic : ""
    Application ||--o{ Role : ""
    Application ||--o{ Permission : ""
    Application ||--o{ Granting : ""
```

### JsonLogic

#### Return Object containing dynamic values from JsonLogic

When a `Logic` rule should return an object or array, we can use a custom JsonLogic operation `"json"`. For example

```json
{
  "name": "filterPremiumWithoutSubscription",
  "rule": {
    "if": [
      {
        "var": "userHasSubscription"
      },
      {
        "json": "{}"
      },
      {
        "json": "{ \"premium\": { \"$in\": [{{first}}, {{second}}, {{first}}] } }"
      }
    ]
  },
  "type": "filter",
  "application": "65f0674f39d8a1a5ef805ca7"
}
```

#### Parse `json` string with custom JsonLogic operation

We can use placeholder with double curly brackets `{{myVariable}}` and parse values into the json string before we parse it.

##### Possible implementation

```javascript
const json = '{ "premium": { "$in": [{{first}}, {{second}}, {{first}}] } }'

const matches = json.matchAll(/{{(\w+)}}/g)

const data = {
  first: 23,
  second: true,
}

const replaced = matches.reduce((result, match) => {
  console.log(match)
  const [matched, group] = match
  return result.replace(matched, data[group])
}, json)

console.log(replaced)

const obj = JSON.parse(replaced)

console.log(obj)
```

## :speech_balloon: Contact

Talk to us via [policer.io](https://policer.io/contact/)

## :lock_with_ink_pen: License

The code is licensed under the [AGPLv3](/LICENSE) License.

## :clipboard: To Do and Backlog

- [ ] Policy decisions should be logged to maintain an audit trail.
  - PDP should emit a socket event
  - Policer API should log these events in DB
- [ ] Validate the required attributes before policy decision.
- [x] Policy versioning, change log history
- [ ] Support offline usage, cache policy locally and load it on PDP start if no connection.
